Proton pump inhibitors or PPIs,
prevent the stomach from making stomach acid.
Stomach cells contain hydrogen potassium ATPase,
a protein also called "the proton pump."
Food entering the stomach tells hydrogen potassium ATPase
to move from inside the cell to its surface
and pump acidic hydrogen ions into the stomach
in exchange for non-acidic potassium ions.
As more hydrogen builds up in the stomach
it becomes more acidic.
Although some acid is required for digestion and to kill bacteria,
high levels may cause indigestion and ulcers.
PPIs work by blocking the proton pump in stomach cells
from moving to the cells surface.
This prevents the pump from adding hydrogen to the stomach
which decreases the amount of acid in the stomach.